
--- Slide 1 ---


A GIFT OF FIRE THIRD EDITION - SARA BAASE
CHAPTER 2: PRIVACY
Lecture 3
"DIVERSE PRIVACY TOPICS ”
Md Umaid Hasan
Lecturer, Dept.of CSE
Daffodil International University
‹#›

--- Slide 2 ---
Marketing, Personalization and Consumer Dossiers:
‹#›
Targeted and personalized marketing (business, political parties, etc)
Paying for consumer information Examples -
Targeting ads to users by scanning their emails! Like Gmail.
Data firms and consumer profiles
Companies (firms) that collect information about individuals
These firms sell data to other companies for marketing purposes.
Data mining is being used
Credit records might be sold to different parties

--- Slide 3 ---
Social Networks
‹#›
What we do
Post opinions, gossip, pictures, “away from home” status
What they do
New services with unexpected privacy settings

--- Slide 4 ---
Location Tracking:
‹#›
Global Positioning Systems (GPS) -
computer or communication services that know exactly where a person is at a particular time
Cell phones and other devices are used for location tracking

--- Slide 5 ---
Stolen and Lost Data:
‹#›
Hackers
Physical theft (laptops, thumb-drives, etc.)
Requesting information under false pretenses
Bribery of employees who have access

--- Slide 6 ---
What We Do Ourselves
‹#›
Some people do not know or understand enough how the web works in order to make good decisions about what to put there.
Some people do not think carefully.
People often want a lot of information about others but do not want others to have access to the same kind of information about themselves.
Our cell phone and email messages reside on computers outside our home or office.
We have no direct control over such files.

--- Slide 7 ---
What We Do Ourselves
‹#›
There have been many incidents of exposure of emails for politicians, businessmen, etc
Personal information in blogs and online profiles
Pictures of ourselves and our families
File sharing and storing
Is privacy old-fashioned?
Young people put less value on privacy than previous generations.
May not understand the risks.

--- Slide 8 ---
Public Records: Access vs. Privacy:
‹#›
Public Records -
Governments maintain “public records,”
Records available to general public (bankruptcy, property, and arrest records, salaries of government employees, etc.)
Identity theft can arise when public records are accesses.
How should we control access to sensitive public records?

--- Slide 9 ---
Children ( privacy and safety)
‹#›
The Internet
Not able to make decisions on when to provide information
Vulnerable to online predators
Parental monitoring
Software to monitor Web usage
Web cams to monitor children while parents are at work
GPS tracking via cell phones or RFID

--- Slide 10 ---
Children ( privacy and safety)
‹#›
At what age does web monitoring become an invasion of the child’s privacy?
Should parents tell children about the tracking devices and services they are using?
Informed consent is a basic principle for adults.
At what age does it apply to children?  Will intense tracking and monitoring slow the development of a child’s responsible independence?  Will parents rely more on gadgets than on talking to their children?

--- Slide 11 ---
National ID System:
‹#›
Social Security Numbers
Too widely used
Easy to falsify
A new national ID system - Pros
would require the card
harder to forge
have to carry only one card
A new national ID system - Cons
Threat to freedom and privacy
Increased potential for abuse

--- Slide 12 ---
‹#›
Thank You