A GIFT OF FIRE THIRD EDITION - SARA BAASE
CHAPTER 2: PRIVACY

Lecture 4
"PROTECTING PRIVACY”
Md Umaid Hasan
Lecturer, Dept.of CSE

Daffodil International University
1

Technology and Markets:
Awareness:
Most people have figured out now you can’t do anything on the web
without leaving a record.

❏ We can decide to what extent we wish to use privacy-protecting
tools.
❏ We can be more careful about the information we give out, and
the privacy policies of sites we use or visit.

2

Technology and Markets:
Privacy-enhancing technologies for consumers
❏ New applications of technology often can solve problems that arise
as side effects of technology.
❏ Example: cookie disablers, blocking pop-up ads, scanning PCs for
spyware, etc.
❏ Using usernames and passwords for Blogs visitors (family , friends,
etc.)

3

Technology and Markets:
Encryption
❏ Information sent to and from websites can be intercepted.

❏ Someone who steals a computer or hacks into it can view files on it .

❏ Encryption is a technology that transforms data into a form that that is
meaningless to anyone who might intercept or view it.
❏ Encryption generally includes a coding scheme, or cryptography algorithm,
and specific sequences of characters (digits or letters).

Cryptography is the art and science of hiding data in plain sight.
—Larry Loen

4

Technology and Markets:
Encryption
❏ Public-key cryptography: An
encryption scheme, where two
related keys are used.
I.

A key to encrypt
messages.

II. A key to decrypt
messages.

5

Technology and Markets:

Business tools and policies for protecting privacy
➢ A well-designed database for sensitive information includes several features

to protect against leaks, intruders, and unauthorized employee access.

○ Each person with authorized access to the system should have a unique
identifier and a password.
○ A system can restrict users from performing certain operations, such as
writing or deleting, on some files. User IDs can be coded so that they
give access to only specific parts of a record.
○ For example, a billing clerk in a hospital does not need access to the
results of a patient’s lab tests.
6

Technology and Markets:
Business tools and policies for protecting privacy
❏ The computer system keeps track of information about each access, including
the ID of the person looking at a record and the particular information viewed
or modified. This is an audit trail that can later help trace unauthorized
activity.
❏ Website operators pay thousands, sometimes millions, of dollars to
companies that do privacy audits. Privacy auditors check for leaks of
information, review the company’s privacy policy and its compliance with that
policy, evaluate warnings and explanations on its website that alert visitors
when the site requests sensitive data, and so forth.
❏ Some large companies like IBM and Microsoft, use their economic influence
to improve consumer privacy on the web, by removing ads from their web 7
sites.

Rights and laws:
Warren and Brandeis: The inviolate personality -

❏ Warren and Brandeis criticized newspapers especially for the gossip
columns.
❏ People have the right to prohibit publications of facts (and photos) about
themselves.
❏ The kinds of information of most concern to them are personal
appearance, statements, acts, and interpersonal relationships (marital,
family, and others)

❏ Warren and Brandeis say privacy is distinct and needs its own protection.
8

Rights and laws:
Thomson: Is there a right to privacy? ❏ Thomson argues the opposite point of view.

❏ There is no violation of privacy without violation of some other right,
such as the right to control our property or our person, the right to be
free from violent attacks, the right to form contracts(and expect them
to be enforced).

9

Rights and laws:
Applying the theories:

❏ Many court decisions since Warren and Brandeis article, have

❏

taken their point of view.

A person may win a case if someone published his/her
consumer profile.

❏ Warren and Brandeis (and court decisions) allow disclosure of
personal information to people who have an interest in it.

❏ An important aspect: consent

10

Rights and laws:
Transactions
❏ Privacy includes control of information about oneself.

❏ How to apply privacy notions to transactions, Which involve more
than one person?

11

Rights and laws:
Ownership of personal data
❏ People should be given property rights in information about

themselves.
❏ But some activities and transactions involve at least two people, each
of whom would have claims to own the information about the activity.
❏ Can we own our profiles (collection of data describing our activities,
purchase, interests, etc.) ?
❏ We cannot own the fact that our eyes have a certain color

12

Rights and laws:
Regulation

❏ Technical tools for privacy protection, market mechanisms,
and business policies are not perfect.
❏ Regulation is not perfect either.

❏ Some Regulations may be so expensive and difficult to apply.

❏ Example: Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA)- protect sensitive patient health information from
being disclosed without the patient’s consent or knowledge.

13

Rights and laws: Contrasting Viewpoints:
Free Market View

❏ Freedom of consumers to make voluntary agreements
❏ Diversity of individual tastes and values

❏ Response of the market to consumer preferences
❏ Usefulness of contracts

14

Rights and laws: Contrasting Viewpoints:
Consumer Protection View
❏ Advocates of strong privacy regulation emphasize the
unsettling uses of personal information
❏ Costly and disruptive results of errors in databases
❏ Ease with which personal information leaks out, via loss, theft,
and carelessness
❏ Consumers need protection from their own lack of knowledge,
judgment, or interest

15

Communications
Wiretapping and Email Protection:

Telephone
❏ 1934 Communications Act prohibited interception of
messages
❏ 1968 Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act
allowed wiretapping and electronic surveillance by
law-enforcement (with court order)

16

Communications
Wiretapping and Email Protection:

❏ Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986
(ECPA) extended the 1968 wiretapping laws to include
electronic communications, restricts government
access to e-mail

17

Thank You

18

A GIFT OF FIRE THIRD EDITION - SARA BAASE
CHAPTER 2: PRIVACY

Lecture 3
"DIVERSE PRIVACY TOPICS ”
Md Umaid Hasan
Lecturer, Dept.of CSE

Daffodil International University
1

Marketing, Personalization and Consumer
Dossiers:
➢ Targeted and personalized marketing (business, political parties, etc)
➢ Paying for consumer information Examples -

○ Targeting ads to users by scanning their emails! Like Gmail.

➢ Data firms and consumer profiles
○

Companies (firms) that collect information about individuals

○ These firms sell data to other companies for marketing purposes.

➢ Data mining is being used

➢ Credit records might be sold to different parties
2

Social Networks
❏ What we do
❏

○ Post opinions, gossip, pictures, “away from home” status
What they do

○ New services with unexpected privacy settings

3

Location Tracking:
❏ Global Positioning Systems (GPS) -

○ computer or communication services that know exactly
where a person is at a particular time

❏ Cell phones and other devices are used for location tracking

4

Stolen and Lost Data:
❏ Hackers

❏ Physical theft (laptops, thumb-drives, etc.)

❏ Requesting information under false pretenses
❏ Bribery of employees who have access

5

What We Do Ourselves
❏ Some people do not know or understand enough how the web works
in order to make good decisions about what to put there.
❏ Some people do not think carefully.

❏ People often want a lot of information about others but do not want
others to have access to the same kind of information about
themselves.
❏ Our cell phone and email messages reside on computers outside our
home or office.
❏ We have no direct control over such files.
6

What We Do Ourselves
❏ There have been many incidents of exposure of emails for politicians,
businessmen, etc

❏ Personal information in blogs and online profiles
❏ Pictures of ourselves and our families
❏ File sharing and storing

❏ Is privacy old-fashioned?

○ Young people put less value on privacy than previous
generations.
○ May not understand the risks.
7

Public Records: Access vs. Privacy:
➢ Public Records -

○ Governments maintain “public records,”
○ Records available to general public (bankruptcy, property,
and arrest records, salaries of government employees,
etc.)

➢

Identity theft can arise when public records are accesses.

➢ How should we control access to sensitive public records?

8

Children ( privacy and safety)
➢ The Internet

○ Not able to make decisions on when to provide
information
○ Vulnerable to online predators

➢ Parental monitoring

○ Software to monitor Web usage

○ Web cams to monitor children while parents are at work
○

GPS tracking via cell phones or RFID
9

Children ( privacy and safety)
➢ At what age does web monitoring become an invasion of the
child’s privacy?

➢ Should parents tell children about the tracking devices and
services they are using?
➢ Informed consent is a basic principle for adults.

➢ At what age does it apply to children? Will intense tracking
and monitoring slow the development of a child’s responsible
independence? Will parents rely more on gadgets than on
talking to their children?

10

National ID System:
➢ Social Security Numbers
○ Too widely used
○ Easy to falsify

➢ A new national ID system - Pros
○

would require the card

○

harder to forge

○

have to carry only one card

➢ A new national ID system - Cons

○ Threat to freedom and privacy
○

Increased potential for abuse

11

Thank You

12

