RESEARCH & INNOVATION IN
CSE
ABSTARCT
Dr. Arif Mahmud
Associate Professor & Associate Head
Department of CSE, Daffodil International University

ABSTRACT

🞆 An abstract is a concise summary of a research
paper or entire thesis.
🞆 It is a well-developed single paragraph of
approximately 250 (100-300 words, but there’s
often a strict word limit) words in length. The
function of the abstract is to outline briefly all
parts of the paper.
🞆 A good abstract is short but impactful, so make
sure every word counts.

WHAT TO INCLUDE
🞆 1. Reason for writing: What is the importance of the

research? Why would a reader be interested in the
larger work?
🞆 2. Problem: What problem does this work attempt to
solve? What is the scope of the project? What is the
main argument, thesis or claim?
🞆 3. Methodology: A scientific work may include specific
models or approaches used in the larger study.
🞆 4. Results: A scientific work may include specific data
that indicates the results of the project.
🞆 5. Implications: How does this work add to the body of
knowledge on the topic? Are there any practical or
theoretical applications from your findings or
implications for future research?

WHAT TO AVOID
🞆 1. Excessive Length: Avoid verbosity and excessive length in your
abstract.
🞆 2. Ambiguity and Vagueness: Clearly define your research
objectives, methodology, and findings to avoid confusion.
🞆 3. Inclusion of Unnecessary Details: Focus on presenting the core
elements of your study, omitting extraneous details that detract
from the main message.
🞆 4. Overstating Findings: Present your results accurately and
objectively, avoiding hyperbole or speculation. Misleading
statements may erode the credibility of your research and
undermine trust in your findings.
🞆 5. Neglecting Proofreading: Neglecting to proofread your abstract
can result in errors or inconsistencies that detract from its
quality. Take the time to review your abstract carefully, checking
for spelling mistakes, grammatical errors, and formatting issues.

EXAMPLE
🞆 Purpose – The factors that motivate generation-z individuals to use IoT for security purposes have
yet to be explored. Therefore, the goal of this research is to close a research gap by verifying the
protection
motivation
theory
using
gender
as
a
moderator.
🞆 Design/methodology/approach – We used a purposive sampling approach to collect data from
Dhaka city in which 370 valid responses were selected. Additionally, the quantitative and crosssectional survey employed a 7-point Likert scale. After that the evaluation approach included
three phases: a measurement model, a structural model, and multi-group analysis.
🞆 Findings –Vulnerability, self-efficacy, and response-efficacy were discovered to be critical
predictors with a variance of 60.4%. Besides, there was a significant disparity between men and
women
in
two
relationships,
response
efficacy
and
response
cost.
🞆 Practical implications – This research expands our understanding of Gen-Z consumers' behavioral
intentions to take measures against household threats, allowing preventative programs to be
improved. Besides, in the case of applying coping strategies, a practical difference between males
and females has been found that must be bridged through aware campaigns.
🞆 Originality/value –This study has made a unique contribution to the information system literature.
First, the role of PMT factors in addressing security concerns in homes utilizing IoT devices has
been assessed. Second, coping evaluation process has a greater impact on users' intentions than
the threat appraisal process. However, Males and females use slightly different approaches to
defending themselves against the threat.
🞆 Keywords: Burglary, IoT, moderator, PMT, generation-z

WRITING TIPS
🞆 Make sure the abstract is written clearly and
concisely.
🞆 In the abstract, only describe your research’s
original contributions.
🞆 Don’t talk about other people’s work.
🞆 It is not necessary to include citations in an
abstract.
🞆 Maintain the word count.
🞆 Add the keyword list at the bottom of the
abstract.
🞆 Completely revise the abstract after writing it
and correct if there are any errors.

FURTHER RESOURCES
🞆 http://darwin.bio.uci.edu/~sustain/Abstract.html
🞆 http://www.cognitrix.com/pages/tips-hints/
abstracts.pdf

THE END

Thank You

