THESIS WRITING GUIDELINES
Dr. Arif Mahmud

Associate Professor & Associate Head

Department of CSE, Daffodil International University

TEMPLATE
 Follow the template properly
 https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RefrffGqICy

KxnBiGQIDZuZS3w5tF9PL/edit?usp=sharing&o
uid=115592112345823669860&rtpof=true&sd=tr
ue

ELEMENTS
 Abstract
 Introduction
 Background and Literature review
 Methodology/model
 Implementation (Optional)
 Results (can be merged with Implementation too)
 Discussion and Conclusion ( include Implications,

Limitations and Future Work)
 References
 N.B: All the chapters have to be interlinked and
dependent on each other

INTRODUCTION
Think of the introduction as a mental road map
that must answer for the reader these four
questions:
 What was I studying?
 Why was this topic important to investigate?
 What did we know about this topic before I did

this study?
 How will this study advance our knowledge?
 Suggestions: 5-7 pages at BSc level (1500+ words)

BACKGROUND
 The

background of the study establishes the
context of the research. This section explains why
this particular research topic is important and
essential to understanding the main aspects of
the study. Usually, the background forms the first
section of a research article/thesis and justifies
the need for conducting the study and
summarizes what the study aims to achieve.
 Suggestions: 3-5 pages at BSc level (1500+ words)

LITERATURE REVIEW
 A literature review is a comprehensive summary

of previous research on a topic. The literature
review surveys scholarly articles, books, and
other sources relevant to a particular area of
research. The review should enumerate, describe,
summarize, objectively evaluate and clarify this
previous research.
 Suggestions: 8-12 pages at BSc level (2500+
words)

METHODOLOGY/MODEL
 Methodology

in research is defined as the
systematic method to resolve a research problem
through data gathering using various techniques,
providing an interpretation of data gathered and
drawing conclusions about the research data.
 Suggestions: 8-10 pages at BSc level (2500+
words)

IMPLEMENTATION
 Implementation research is an integrated concept

that links research and practice to accelerate the
development and delivery of methods/approaches.
Implementation involves the creation and
application of knowledge to improve the
implementation of policies, programs, and
practices
 Suggestions: 8-10 pages at BSc level (2500+
words)

RESULTS
The results section is where you report the findings
of your study based upon the methodology you
applied to gather information. The results section
should state the findings of the research arranged
in a logical sequence without bias or interpretation.
Suggestions: 5-10 pages at BSc level (1500+ words)

DISCUSSION
 The purpose of the discussion is to interpret and

describe the significance of your findings in light
of what was already known about the research
problem being investigated and to explain any
new understanding or insights that emerged as a
result of your study of the problem.
 Suggestions: 5-10 pages at BSc level (1500+
words)

CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS
 In conclusion, answer the research questions that

you proposed in 1st chapter
 Example:
 As per answer of RQ1… according to RQ2 ..
 In implications, highlight theoretical and
practical (or methodological contribution). I mean
what are new factors/modifications you have
included in your theory (algorithms), practically
or methodologically.
 In limitations and future works, highlight 2-3
issues that can be solved within 3-6 months of
time.

REFERENCES
 Referencing

can be described as giving credit,
with citation, to the source of information used in
one’s work. Research is a buildup on what other
people have previously done thus referencing
helps to relate your own work to previous work.
Unacknowledged use and presenting someone
else’s ideas as if they were your own can be used
to describe plagiarism.
 Suggestions: 30+ references at BSc level

FURTHER RESOURCES
Creswell, J. W. (2014). Research Design:
Qualitative, Quantitative and Mixed Methods
Approaches (4th ed.). Thousand Oaks, California:
Sage.

Kothari, C.R. (2004). Research Methodology:
Methods and Techniques (2nd ed.). Delhi: New
Age International Publishers.

Bryman, A., & Bell, E. (2007). Business research
methods (2nd ed.). New York: Oxford University
Press.

Sekaran, U. (2003). Research methods for
business: A skill-building approach (4th ed.). New
York: John Wiley & Sons.


THE END

Thank You

