LITERATURE REVIEW
Dr. Arif Mahmud

Associate Professor & Associate Head

Department of CSE, Daffodil International University

LITERATURE REVIEW
 A critical analysis of existing research in your field
 It

highlights both the strengths and weaknesses of
existing research
 Allows you to gain a critical understanding of your
field
 Opportunity to think about what has been done in
your field
 Opportunity to think about the similarities, patterns,
trends and also differences across the existing
research
 By identifying strengths and weakness, you will be
able to think about what needs to be done
 Establishes the gaps or inadequacies

LITERATURE REVIEW

STARTING TO THINK ABOUT YOUR OWN
LITERATURE REVIEW
 Who are the key players in my field? This could

be anything from academics, medics, governing
bodies, schools of thought etc. (Sources!)
 What are the main ideas/debates in my field?
 How have these ideas changed over time?
 What are some of the problems with these
ideas/debates? Is there a problem with the
methodology?
 What are you going to do differently?

KEY PLAYERS AND SOURCES
 First stage of the literature review is to identify

the key people in your field and collate all relevant
sources about your topic.
 Ask yourself:
What research and theory is there on my topic?
What are the key sources on my topic?
Who are the main researchers in this area?
How has the topic been investigated over time?

GETTING STARTED: PLANNING THE REVIEW
 How will you organize the information?

– Chronologically?
– Thematically?
– By trends/approaches/techniques?
– Major debates/controversies?
– Probably a combination of these

ILLUSTRATING TRENDS: SYNTHESIZING
LITERATURE
 Avoid list-like structure by illustrating trends

and patterns
 For example:
Research into thesis titles has emphasized the use
of the colon to distinguish the thematic focus
from the precise focus of the work (Smith, 1999;
James, 2002; Webster, 2007; Helgesen, 2008).

USE OF CITATIONS IN THE LITERATURE
REVIEW
 Two types of citations:

• Integral: The author’s name appears in the
sentence.
– Example (author-date system): Lillis (2001)
argues that both tutors and students often lack
explicit knowledge of the conventions governing the
construction of academic texts.
• Non-integral: The author’s name appears outside
sentence.
– Example: Both tutors and students often lack
explicit knowledge of the conventions governing the
construction of academic texts (Lillis, 2001).

REVIEW SUMMARIZATION

GETTING STARTED: PLANNING THE REVIEW
 Chronologically?
 Thematically?
 By trends/approaches/techniques?
 Major debates/controversies?
 Probably a combination of these

EDITING AND PROOFREADING
 Editing and proofreading are fundamental

aspects of good academic practice.

 Editing

is the process of continually revising
and improving your written work. It is often an
activity that forms a major part of the writing
process.

 Proofreading

is the final check before printing
and submission. It is a process that helps remove
errors and improve presentation

EXAMPLE
This research identifies six UTAUT 2-based papers that are as
follows. First, Abushakra and Nikbin (2019) and Alkawsi et al.
(2018) study IoT-based applications from entrepreneur and
consumer perspectives. As per Abushakra and Nikbin (2019),
entrepreneurs do not embrace IoT services when the
procedures are not advantageous, convenient, and simple.
Alternatively, new approaches and management strategies are
required to improve the adoption rates among consumers
(Alkawsi et al., 2018). In both cases, knowledge of the system
has a high influence on the adoption intention.

Furthermore, different age groups have different priorities,
beliefs, and expectations for IoT-based systems. For example,
those between 20 to 30 years of age bear more faith in nonprofit and profitable companies, whereas the elder groups are
discerned to have faith only in public organizations
(Radenković et al., 2020). Similarly, personality-related issues
with age have a significant impact on the adoption of RFID in
healthcare (Chong et al., 2015). For this reason, different types
of services are recommended in these studies, keeping the age
groups and individual characteristics in mind.


FURTHER READING
 Greenhalgh, T. (2006) How to Read a Paper: The

basics of evidencebased medicine Third edition.
Oxford: Blackwell and BMJ
 Hart, C. (1998) Doing a Literature Review.
London: SAGE
 Ridley, D. (2008) The Literature Review: A Stepby-Step Guide for Students. London: SAGE
 Yudkin, B. (2006) Critical Reading: Making sense
of research papers in life sciences and medicine.
London: Routledge

THE END

Thank You

