METHODOLOGY
Dr. Arif Mahmud

Associate Professor & Associate Head

Department of CSE, Daffodil International University

DEFINITION
 Schwardt

(2007:195)
defines
research
methodology as a theory of how an inquiry should
proceed. It involves analysis of the assumptions,
principles and procedures in a particular
approach to inquiry. According to Creswell and
Tashakkori (2007), and Teddlie and Tashakkori
(2007), methodologies explicate and define the
kinds of problems that are worth investigating;
what constitutes a researchable problem; testable
hypotheses; how to frame a problem in such a
way that it can be investigated using particular
designs and procedures; and how to select and
develop appropriate means of collecting data.

METHODOLOGY
 It is the part of the proposal or research paper

that describes the methods used to collect the
data
 It follows the introduction and literature review
 It allows the reader to understand how the data
were analyzed, and to judge for himself if the
methods were justified
 It should be detailed enough for a good researcher
to be able to replicate the study from reading the
method section

METHODOLOGY SECTIONS
 Participants: Who was in the study
 Procedure: What happened in the study
 Measures/Materials: What measures were used—

like surveys Or what materials—like special lab
equipment
 Analysis section: Describes the statistical
analysis

PROCESS

APPROACH

TO INCLUDE
 An

outline of the research methods chosen
(qualitative, quantitative, or mixed methods)
 Background and rationale for the methods chosen,
explaining why one method was chosen over another
 Methods used for data collection and data analysis
 Materials and equipment used—keep this brief
 Difficulties encountered during data collection and
analysis.
 A brief evaluation of your research explaining whether
your results were conclusive and whether your choice
of methodology was effective in practice

TO AVOID
 Irrelevant

details, for example, an extensive
review of methodologies (this belongs in the
literature review section) or information that
does not contribute to the readers’ understanding
of your chosen methods
 A description of basic procedures
 Excessive details about materials and equipment
used. If an extremely long and detailed list is
necessary, add it as an appendix
 Raw data

SUMMARY

CHECKLIST
Introduce your methodological approach, for example,
quantitative, qualitative, or mixed methods.
 Explain why your chosen approach is relevant to the overall
research design and how it links with your thesis question.
 Justify your chosen method and why it is more appropriate
than others.
 Provide
background information on methods that may
be unfamiliar to readers of your thesis.
 Introduce the tools that you will use for data collection, and
explain how you plan to use them (e.g., surveys, interviews,
experiments, or existing data).
 Explain how you will analyze your results. The type of
analysis used depends on the methods you chose. For example,
exploring theoretical perspectives to support your explanation of
observed behaviors in a qualitative study or using statistical
analyses in a quantitative study.
 Mention any research limitations. Discussing the limitations
justifies your choice of methodology despite the risks. It also
explains under which conditions the results should be interpreted
and shows that you have taken a holistic approach to your study.


FURTHER READING
Sekaran, U. (2003). Research methods for
business: A skill-building approach (4th ed.). New
York: John Wiley & Sons.

Bhattacherjee, A. (2012). Social science research:
Principles, methods, and practices (2nd ed.).
University of South Florida: Creative Commons
Attribution. Retrieved from https://scholarcommo
ns.usf.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1002&cont
ext=oa_textbooks

Bryman, A. (2012). Social Research Methods (4th
ed.), New York: Oxford University Press.

Creswell, J. W. (2014). Research Design:
Qualitative, Quantitative and Mixed Methods
Approaches (4th ed.). Thousand Oaks, California:
Sage.


THE END

Thank You

